- [Instructor] Build packages are used
every time a build occurs, but usually we don't do a lot
of extra configuration we just specify the package type.
Once again let's jump to our Plugins page.
We're going to scroll down here to the packaging tools.
We'll start at the top and start with the EAR.
Now the EAR and the Enterprise Archive is used
for large scale J2EE or Jakarta EE deployments.
These EAR files actually alow you to put
all the other packages in them.
Things like ejbs, wars, jars, rar files,
a whole list of things can actually go into an EAR
and an EAR allows you to deploy them once,
instead of deploying each one individually.
On the Usage page you'll see that you have a little bit
of configuration that you can apply,
but really it's when you execute package and the packaging
of your artifact is EAR that this will get executed.
Again there's some advanced configuration,
but you can read through that on your own
if you're doing EAR file deployments.
Anymore very few of us are doing EARs so it's not
as important for a lot of us to understand it,
but if you are, all of your information is here.
Let's take a look now at the WAR file.
A WAR file is a web archive and the web archive
is what goes into an application server, specifically,
a web application server.
So this would be something as small as Tomcat or Jetty
or as large as WebLogic or WebSphere.
This is how we expose web applications,
whether they're websites or web services,
things like SOAP and REST are all defined in WAR files
until you get into modern embedded application servers,
but that's for another conversation.
You can take a look that there are some configuration
that you need to do, especially if you are deploying things
without a traditional web.xml file.
As you read through these documentations you can look at
not only the package structure
that a WAR file needs to have, but the way
that it works when it's actually executing.
If you are building WAR files today, learn this information.
Now let's jump back to the beginning here
and now we're going to take a look at JAR files.
JAR files are by far the most common project
that you will build.
And if you don't specify a packaging
this is what you're going to get anyway.
A JAR file is just that, it's a Java archive.
It can be put anywhere that you want to put code.
You can run it on your local machine,
you can run it on a web application server,
you can run it on embedded servers.
JAR files really are the way that Java is packaged
in most situations.
Now when you're doing JAR files there are some things
that you can customize, things like the manifest
and the details that go into it,
some of the ways that the archive itself configured
and all of that is documented on this page.
But I do want to reiterate once again that if you are doing
traditional development, you most likely are doing JAR files
unless you specify something else.
And the really cool thing is that now
with embedded application servers and with the way
that cloud computing works I can use a JAR file
that has been shaded with an embedded application server
and I can run web applications through a JAR file today.
It's a little bit different way of thinking,
but JAR is really the way that most of us are doing
all of our development, whether it's a simple library
or a full scale application.
Now there are other packaging
and they're really beyond the scope of this course,
'cause they're not that common.
The one to look at it is the shade and we're going to focus
on that quite a bit later because shading is really powerful
if you want to build an application
that you can just hand to somebody
and let them run without having any other dependencies.
We're going to focus on that in the dependencies section,
later on in this course.